---
layout: post
title:  "What Changed in 2017"
date:   2018-02-06 12:00:00
categories: proramming
tags: programming
---

I stumbled upon Fogus' [The best things and stuff of 2017](http://blog.fogus.me/2018/01/02/the-best-things-and-stuff-of-2017/)
and thought I should do something similar.  Before I pick any favorites for the last year, I wanted to see what type of things
I worked on in 2017, so I hit the git logs for a list of all the files that I commited
between january 1, 2017 and December 31, 2017.  From that list, I aggregated a list of all the file extensions,  14 in total.

Work
====

* .java
* .clj
* .sql

* .sh
* .bat

* .csv
* .xlsx
* .impex
* .xml
   *  data
   *  spring.xml
   *  items.xml
   *  build.xml

* .feature
* .project
* .ini
* .properties
* .jar

I have grouped these files by more of a meta type like programming languages or data etc.  and separated the xml files
since data files are different from [ant](http://ant.apache.org/) build files or [spring](https://spring.io/) configurations.  

I should probably point out that the only reason .feature files are included is because I cleaned 
up some old [Cucumber](https://cucumber.io/) test expermiments that had been commited in the past.

Outside of Work
===============
* .clj
* .cljs
* .java
* .markdown
* .yml
* .txt
* .dia
* .jpg
* .png
* .json
* .html
* .js


Twelve file types were changed for projects outside of work with 10 of those 12 not part of the work list.  I almost 
forgot about the [Clojure Help Chrome Extension]({% post_url 2017-03-12-cljhelp-extension %}) which added some of the 
most common file types around: html, js, and json

I won't try to attribute any meaning to these lists, but will likely refer back to them when I do the full year wrapup.

